index.md, before:

# Feature Flag Solutions

## What are Feature Flags?

`Feature Flags` are a technique in software development that allows to modify runtime behavior without changing code. It decouples the releasing of functionality to the end users from the roll-out of the binaries.
`Feature Flags` work like a switch or toggle and are therefore often called `Feature Toggles` or `Feature Switches` because of there Boolean nature. But `Feature Flags` can have many different use cases and can be more complex than a toggle. That’s why the tern Feature Flag is more suitable.

## Available Feature Flag Solutions

There are many solutions out there. I'm first focusing on all the available `products` - and not on individual frammeworks. Maybe I add this later. This is the criteria I will look for:

- Pricing
- License
- Available SDKs
- Hosting Options
- Compliance

These are the solutions I found so far. Feel free to contact ne if I missed anything:

1. [LaunchDarkley](#launchdarkley)
2. [Unleash](#unleash)
3. [Switchover](#switchover)
4. [VWO](#vwo)
5. [Split](#split)
6. [Flagship](#flagship)

## LaunchDarkley

[LaunchDarkley](https://launchdarkly.com) is one of the oldest players in the field of Feature Flags and a very mature solution with the most SDKs and certifications available.

### LaunchDarkley Pricing

See [Pricing](https://launchdarkly.com/pricing/). LaunchDarkly is purchachsed on a monthly basis but can be payed anualy.

These plans are available:

|                     | Starter            | Pro                | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price payed monthly:|                $10 |               $20  |                  ? |
| Price payed anualy: |              $8.33 |             $16.67 |                  ? |
| Seats minimum       |                  1 |                  5 |                 25 |
| MAU`*`              |                 1k |                10k |                  ? |
| SSO / SAML          |     $10/seat/month |     $10/seat/month |           included |
| SLA                 |                  ? |              99.9% |              99.9% |

`*`Monthly active unique client-side users

A seat is a team member that logs into the portal using a unique email address.
The MAUs are the active unique users - so every user only counts once - even if they evaluate flags from multiple devices.

### LaunchDarkley Available SDKs (26)

|               |                |                |               |
|---------------|----------------|----------------|---------------|
| Android       | Apex           | C/C++**        | C#            |
| Electron      | Erlang         | Flutter        | Gatsby        |
| Go            | Haskell        | iOS            | Java          |
| JavaScript    | Lua            | .NET           | Node.JS**     |
| PHP           | Python         | React          | React Native  |
| Roku          | Ruby           | Swift          | Xamarin       |

`**`client and server

### LaunchDarkley Hosting options

LaunchDarkly is a SaaS service. But at least a few years ago it was possible to install it on-premises if
you asked for an enterprise plan. I have to validate if this is still the case.

### LaunchDarkley Compliance

- SOC 2 Type II
- ISO 27001
- GDPR
- EU/US Privacy Shield

## Unleash

[Unleash](https://www.getunleash.io/) is a product that has an [Open Core](https://github.com/Unleash/unleash) but is also offered as a SaaS service. Unleash is the solution that is used by GitLab.

### Unleash Pricing

The open core can be self-hosted using **Docker**, **Node.js**, or **Helm** and is free of charge.

Unleash Enterprise comes with two additional [plans](https://www.getunleash.io/plans#compare): `Pro` and `Enterprise`. Enterprise can be hosted or a self.hosted solution.

|                     |  Pro                | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|--------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price payed monthly:|$16 (first 5 than 15)|                  ? |
| Price payed anualy: |              $16.67 |                  ? |
| Seats min - max     |              5 - 20 |                  ? |
| MAU`*`              |                 ?   |                  ? |
| SLA                 |               99.9% |              99.9% |

`*`Monthly active unique client-side users
`***`host

### Unleash Hosting options

Self-hosted or SaaS

### Unleash Available SDKs (11)

Official Server SDKs:

- [Java SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/java_sdk)
- [Node.js SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/node_sdk)
- [Go SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/go_sdk)
- [Ruby SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/ruby_sdk)
- [Python SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/python_sdk)
- [.Net SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/dot_net_sdk)
- [PHP SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/php_sdk)

Official Frontend SDKs:

The frontend SDKs connects via the [Unleash Proxy](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/unleash-proxy) in order to ensure Privacy, scalability and security.

- [Javascript SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/proxy-javascript)
- [React SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/proxy-react)
- [Android SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/android_proxy_sdk)
- [iOS SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/proxy-ios)

### Unleash Compliance

Self-hosted: you have full control.
Service: unknown

## Switchover

[Switchover](https://switchover.io/) is a product of the German company Takso GmbH with a strong focus on compliance in the automotive industry.

### Switchover Pricing

|                     | Free.              | Starter            | Professional       | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|-------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price / month       |              0 EUR |             39 EUR |             89 EUR |            199 EUR |
| Seats               |                  1 |                  5 |                 50 |          unlimited |
| Requests            |              5 mio |             15 mio |             90 mio |          unlimited |
| Projects            |                  1 |                  3 |                 10 |          unlimited |
| SLA                 |                98% |              98.5% |              99.5% |              99.5% |

### Switchover Hosting options

SaaS.
I had contact with Switchover and they said they support self hosting. But I can't find anything on the website.

### Switchover Available SDKs (8)

- PHP
- Laravel
- Node.JS
- JavaScript
- React
- Vue JS
- Angular JS
- Nuxt JS

### Switchover Compliance

unknown (probably through self hosting)

## VWO

[VWO](https://vwo.com/) is mkore than just Feature Flags - they provide analytics and testing solutions and services. Unfortunatley they don't have apricing on their website. I'll skipp them therefor for now.

## Split

[Split](https://www.split.io/) is a company founded in 2015 and has a strong focus on mobile development. They serve over 1 trillion flags per month according to their website. Their headquarter is in California.

### Split Pricing

Unfortunatley, Split does not provide pricing information on [their website](https://www.split.io/pricing/). They just offer you a free 30 day trial. Pricing works on MTKs - but I don't know how much that is. Thsi is what is on their website:

> We charge for our Platform Edition based on the number of Monthly Tracked Keys (MTKs) evaluated by Split. MTKs are the number of unique keys you track within Split in a calendar month. This is typically a combination of users, both logged in and anonymous. It can also be sessions, accounts, devices, or other custom identifiers that you define.

|                     | Free               | Platform           | Monitor & Experiment |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|---------------------:|
| Price / month       |              0 EUR |               $ ?? |                 $ ?? |
| Seats               |                 10 |                 25 |                   50 |
| SLA                 |                  - |              99.9% |                99.9% |
| MTKs                |                  ? |                  ? |                    ? |

### Split Available SDKs (14)

- Android
- Go
- iOS
- Java
- JavaScript
- .NET
- Node.JS
- PHP
- Python
- React
- React Native
- Redux
- Ruby
- Ruby on Rails

### Split Hosting Options

???

### Split Compliance

???

## Flagship

[Flagship](https://www.flagship.io/) is a French company with headquaters in Paris and offices around the world (New York, San Francisco, London, Singapore, Berlin, Cologne, Madrid).

### Flagship Pricing

[Pricing](https://www.flagship.io/pricing/)

|                     | Premium            | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price / month       |               $175 |                  ? |
| Seats               |          unlimited |          unlimited |
| Environments        |                  2 |             Custom |
| Projects / Environment |               2 |          Unlimited |
| MAU`*`              |                15k |               300k |
| SLA                 |                  - |             99.99% |

### Flagship Available SDKs (12)

- JavaScript
- Node.JS
- React
- Go
- Java
- Python
- PHP
- .NET
- Flutter
- iOS
- Android
- React Native

### Flagship Hosting Options

???

### Flagship Compliance

???

## Summary

This analysis is still work in progress. Let me know if you miss anything. Contact me or directly create a pull request.

Commit message:

Updated Split to show new public pricing, other details
Split recently switched to public pricing.  This PR includes those details, adds new SDK support, and fills in some blanks about certifications.
Thank you for creating this repo!

index.md, after:

# Feature Flag Solutions

## What are Feature Flags?

`Feature Flags` are a technique in software development that allows to modify runtime behavior without changing code. It decouples the releasing of functionality to the end users from the roll-out of the binaries.
`Feature Flags` work like a switch or toggle and are therefore often called `Feature Toggles` or `Feature Switches` because of there Boolean nature. But `Feature Flags` can have many different use cases and can be more complex than a toggle. That’s why the tern Feature Flag is more suitable.

## Available Feature Flag Solutions

There are many solutions out there. I'm first focusing on all the available `products` - and not on individual frammeworks. Maybe I add this later. This is the criteria I will look for:

- Pricing
- License
- Available SDKs
- Hosting Options
- Compliance

These are the solutions I found so far. Feel free to contact ne if I missed anything:

1. [LaunchDarkley](#launchdarkley)
2. [Unleash](#unleash)
3. [Switchover](#switchover)
4. [VWO](#vwo)
5. [Split](#split)
6. [Flagship](#flagship)

## LaunchDarkley

[LaunchDarkley](https://launchdarkly.com) is one of the oldest players in the field of Feature Flags and a very mature solution with the most SDKs and certifications available.

### LaunchDarkley Pricing

See [Pricing](https://launchdarkly.com/pricing/). LaunchDarkly is purchachsed on a monthly basis but can be payed anualy.

These plans are available:

|                     | Starter            | Pro                | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price payed monthly:|                $10 |               $20  |                  ? |
| Price payed anualy: |              $8.33 |             $16.67 |                  ? |
| Seats minimum       |                  1 |                  5 |                 25 |
| MAU`*`              |                 1k |                10k |                  ? |
| SSO / SAML          |     $10/seat/month |     $10/seat/month |           included |
| SLA                 |                  ? |              99.9% |              99.9% |

`*`Monthly active unique client-side users

A seat is a team member that logs into the portal using a unique email address.
The MAUs are the active unique users - so every user only counts once - even if they evaluate flags from multiple devices.

### LaunchDarkley Available SDKs (26)

|               |                |                |               |
|---------------|----------------|----------------|---------------|
| Android       | Apex           | C/C++**        | C#            |
| Electron      | Erlang         | Flutter        | Gatsby        |
| Go            | Haskell        | iOS            | Java          |
| JavaScript    | Lua            | .NET           | Node.JS**     |
| PHP           | Python         | React          | React Native  |
| Roku          | Ruby           | Swift          | Xamarin       |

`**`client and server

### LaunchDarkley Hosting options

LaunchDarkly is a SaaS service. But at least a few years ago it was possible to install it on-premises if
you asked for an enterprise plan. I have to validate if this is still the case.

### LaunchDarkley Compliance

- SOC 2 Type II
- ISO 27001
- GDPR
- EU/US Privacy Shield

## Unleash

[Unleash](https://www.getunleash.io/) is a product that has an [Open Core](https://github.com/Unleash/unleash) but is also offered as a SaaS service. Unleash is the solution that is used by GitLab.

### Unleash Pricing

The open core can be self-hosted using **Docker**, **Node.js**, or **Helm** and is free of charge.

Unleash Enterprise comes with two additional [plans](https://www.getunleash.io/plans#compare): `Pro` and `Enterprise`. Enterprise can be hosted or a self.hosted solution.

|                     |  Pro                | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|--------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price payed monthly:|$16 (first 5 than 15)|                  ? |
| Price payed anualy: |              $16.67 |                  ? |
| Seats min - max     |              5 - 20 |                  ? |
| MAU`*`              |                 ?   |                  ? |
| SLA                 |               99.9% |              99.9% |

`*`Monthly active unique client-side users
`***`host

### Unleash Hosting options

Self-hosted or SaaS

### Unleash Available SDKs (11)

Official Server SDKs:

- [Java SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/java_sdk)
- [Node.js SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/node_sdk)
- [Go SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/go_sdk)
- [Ruby SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/ruby_sdk)
- [Python SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/python_sdk)
- [.Net SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/dot_net_sdk)
- [PHP SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/php_sdk)

Official Frontend SDKs:

The frontend SDKs connects via the [Unleash Proxy](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/unleash-proxy) in order to ensure Privacy, scalability and security.

- [Javascript SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/proxy-javascript)
- [React SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/proxy-react)
- [Android SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/android_proxy_sdk)
- [iOS SDK](https://docs.getunleash.io/sdks/proxy-ios)

### Unleash Compliance

Self-hosted: you have full control.
Service: unknown

## Switchover

[Switchover](https://switchover.io/) is a product of the German company Takso GmbH with a strong focus on compliance in the automotive industry.

### Switchover Pricing

|                     | Free.              | Starter            | Professional       | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|-------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price / month       |              0 EUR |             39 EUR |             89 EUR |            199 EUR |
| Seats               |                  1 |                  5 |                 50 |          unlimited |
| Requests            |              5 mio |             15 mio |             90 mio |          unlimited |
| Projects            |                  1 |                  3 |                 10 |          unlimited |
| SLA                 |                98% |              98.5% |              99.5% |              99.5% |

### Switchover Hosting options

SaaS.
I had contact with Switchover and they said they support self hosting. But I can't find anything on the website.

### Switchover Available SDKs (8)

- PHP
- Laravel
- Node.JS
- JavaScript
- React
- Vue JS
- Angular JS
- Nuxt JS

### Switchover Compliance

unknown (probably through self hosting)

## VWO

[VWO](https://vwo.com/) is mkore than just Feature Flags - they provide analytics and testing solutions and services. Unfortunatley they don't have apricing on their website. I'll skipp them therefor for now.

## Split

[Split](https://www.split.io/) is a feature feature management and experimentation platform that pairs feature flagging with data to automatically attribute system performance and user behavior to each feature. They serve over 1 trillion flags per month according to their website. Split is headquartered in Redwood City, California.

### Split Pricing

Split has four pricing tiers, starting with a free-forever Developer tier. Beyond the Developer tier, pricing is based primarily on seats, with additional costs if monthly tracked keys (MTKs) exceed 50,000. One MTK = one unique user or account or device evaluated by SDK. Developer tier accounts begin with a 30-day Enterprise trial. See summary below and details on [their website](https://www.split.io/pricing/).

|                     | Developer          | Team               | Business             | Enterprise           |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|---------------------:|---------------------:|
| Price/seat/month.   |                $ 0 |               $ 33 |                 $ 60 |               Custom |
| Max Feature Flags   |          Unlimited |          Unlimited |            Unlimited |            Unlimited |
| Max Workspaces      |                  1 |                  1 |            Unlimited |            Unlimited |
| Max Environments    |                  2 |                  2 |            Unlimited |            Unlimited |
| Treatments per flag |                  2 |                  2 |            Unlimited |            Unlimited |
| SLA                 |                  - |              99.9% |                99.9% |                99.9% |
| Standard MTKs       |             50,000 |             50,000 |               50,000 |               50,000 |
| Additional MTKs     |      Not available |      Not available |               Custom |               Custom |

### Split Available SDKs (16 + Evaluator)

- Angular
- Android
- Flutter
- Go
- iOS
- Java
- JavaScript
- .NET
- Node.JS
- PHP
- Python
- React
- React Native
- Redux
- Ruby
- Ruby on Rails
- Split Evaluator to support other languages via REST API

### Split Hosting Options

SaaS only.
Split provides an on-premise [Split Proxy](https://help.split.io/hc/en-us/articles/4415960499213-Split-Proxy) if limiting outbound traffic to a single connection is desired

### Split Compliance

Split is CCPA, GDPR, ISO 20001, Privacy Shield and SOC 2 certified.
More detail and access to pentest reports, etc is available on the [Split Security Portal](https://security.split.io/)

## Flagship

[Flagship](https://www.flagship.io/) is a French company with headquaters in Paris and offices around the world (New York, San Francisco, London, Singapore, Berlin, Cologne, Madrid).

### Flagship Pricing

[Pricing](https://www.flagship.io/pricing/)

|                     | Premium            | Enterprise         |
| --------------------|-------------------:|-------------------:|
| Price / month       |               $175 |                  ? |
| Seats               |          unlimited |          unlimited |
| Environments        |                  2 |             Custom |
| Projects / Environment |               2 |          Unlimited |
| MAU`*`              |                15k |               300k |
| SLA                 |                  - |             99.99% |

### Flagship Available SDKs (12)

- JavaScript
- Node.JS
- React
- Go
- Java
- Python
- PHP
- .NET
- Flutter
- iOS
- Android
- React Native

### Flagship Hosting Options

???

### Flagship Compliance

???

## Summary

This analysis is still work in progress. Let me know if you miss anything. Contact me or directly create a pull request.
